[gRNAet7B] added documentation about new trigger procedures and deprecated ones (#3325)
neo4j-contrib/neo4j-apoc-procedures: docs/asciidoc/modules/ROOT/pages/background-operations/triggers.adoc

Triggers allow the registration of Cypher queries that are called when data in Neo4j is changed (created, updated, deleted).
You can run them before or after commit.

[WARNING]
====

> The listeners are eventually consistent,

Reviewer: Normally a user will not have any context of what a listener is. I think it would be better worded as: installing, updating or removing a trigger is an eventually consistent operation.

Author: Changed

Triggers allow the registration of Cypher queries that are called when data in Neo4j is changed (created, updated, deleted).
You can run them before or after commit.

[NOTE]
====

> All these `apoc.trigger.*` procedures are implemented to be executed in the system database,
> therefore they have to be used executing first `:use system` (in cypher-shell or Neo4j Browser), 
> by opening a system db session with a neo4j driver, 
> or by prepending the suffix `USE system` to the cypher statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All these `apoc.trigger.*` procedures are intended to be executed in the system database,
therefore they have to be used executed by opening a system database session. There are several ways of doing this:
- when using cypher-shell or Neo4j Browser, one can prefix their Cypher query with `:use system`
- when using fabric, one can prefix their Cypher query with `USE system` 
- when using the drivers, one can open a session directly against the system database
```

| apoc.trigger.toRelationship(rel, $removedRelationshipProperties) | function to rebuild a relationship as a virtual, to be used in triggers with a not 'afterAsync' phase
|===

The 3rd parameter of the `apoc.trigger.install()` is a map `{phase: PHASE}`, where `PHASE` is a string which can have one of the following values:

.Trigger Phase Table
[cols="1m,5"]
|===
| PHASE | Description
| before | The trigger will be activate right `before` the commit. If no phase is specified, it's the default.

> | rollback | The trigger will be activate right after the  `rollback`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| rollback | The trigger will be activate right after the `rollback`
```

> | after | The trigger will be activate right `after` the commit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| after | The trigger will be activate right `after` the commit.
```

[source,cypher]
----
USE system 

> CALL apoc.trigger.install('neo4j', 'setLastUpdate',

Reviewer 2: Does it work with Fabric like this? Or do you mean to say `:use system`? 

`USE system` is not equivalent to `:use system` because the first relies on Fabric routing and the latter relies on drivers routing. 

I couldn't see any tests where we are using Fabric to route to the system database, maybe that's possible but if so then I'd like to be sure. If not then maybe it's better to use `:use system` here instead?

Author: Yes, both `:use system` and `USE system CALL apoc.trigger.install`, with a `neo4j://` protocol, works.

I didn't add tests for fabric https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-apoc-procedures/pull/3183#discussion_r1018198006 

But maybe we can make the documentation more generic: that is, something like putting a `[NOTE]` at the beginning saying that these procedures have to be used via `":use system"`, by opening a session in "system" db with neo4j driver, or via `"USE system ..."` .

And as an example here just put `CALL apoc.trigger.install('neo4j', 'setLastUpdate', ...`.
This way it is up to the user what he wants to use. 
Wdyt?

Reviewer 2: Ah yes good point I remember that conversation now! 

I think your suggestion is good 👍

.Pause trigger

> We have the possibility to pause a trigger without remove it, if we will need it in the future.
> Note that this procedure and the `apoc.trigger.start` one are eventually consistent,
> so we need to wait a time defined by the configuration `apoc.trigger.refresh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have the possibility of pausing a trigger without removing it, in case we might need it in the future.
Note that this procedure and the `apoc.trigger.start` ones are eventually consistent,
so we need to wait some amount of time for the changes to propagate. This amount of time is defined by the configuration `apoc.trigger.refresh`.
```

CALL apoc.trigger.install('dbTest', 'count-removed-rels','MATCH (c:Counter) SET c.count = c.count + size([r IN $deletedRelationships WHERE type(r) = "X"])', {})
CALL apoc.trigger.install('dbTest', 'lowercase-by-label','UNWIND apoc.trigger.nodesByLabel($assignedLabels,"Person") AS n SET n.id = toLower(n.name)', {})
----

// end::trigger[]

== Remove triggers

If we want to remove the trigger with name 'test' in 'neo4j' database, 
we can run the following query:

[source,cypher]
----
CALL apoc.trigger.drop('neo4j', 'test')
----

If we want to remove all triggers in 'neo4j' db, we can execute

[source,cypher]
----
CALL apoc.trigger.dropAll('neo4j')
----

== List of triggers

If we want to get the list of triggers, for example if we have one trigger created via:

[source,cypher]
----
CALL apoc.trigger.install('neo4j', 'count-removals', 
    'MATCH (c:Counter) SET c.count = c.count + size([f IN $deletedNodes WHERE id(f) > 0])', 
    {})
----

we can execute (also in this case, after a time defined by the configuration `apoc.trigger.refresh`):

[source,cypher]
----

> CALL apoc.trigger.list

Reviewer 2: Should this be changed to apoc.trigger.show() or do you want to do that later? I don't mind either way, this is just a reminder.

Author: Personally I would do it in the other pr :)
